---
layout: post
title:  "Install SensorHub on IFC6410 ARM Board"
date:   2015-03-31 10:40:56
categories: blog
---

The [IFC6410][] is a powerful ARM powered development board carrying a Qualcomm Snapdragon chipset (600) that can run Linux.

Although we had (and still have) some issues with wifi stability on this board, we have successfully run SensorHub on it to stream a video feed from an Axis camera. This page describes the procedure to get the board up and running with Linaro Ubuntu Linux and then install SensorHub on it.

[IFC6410]: http://www.inforcecomputing.com/products/single-board-computers/6410-single-board-computer-sbc


### Install the latest Ubuntu OS on the IFC6410

You'll first have to flash your board with the latest Ubuntu Linux version for Snapdragon provided by Linaro. For this, go to: http://releases.linaro.org/latest/ubuntu/snapdragon

```
sudo fastboot flash boot boot-qcom-apq8064-ifc6410-qcom-snapdragon-20150127-71.img
sudo fastboot flash cache firmware-qcom-snapdragon-20150127-71.img
sudo fastboot flash -S 768M userdata linaro-utopic-gnome-qcom-snapdragon-20150127-71.img
```

Below are a few more steps to set up networking properly:
If the wireless interface wlan0 doesn't show up (i.e. it is not listed when you run `ifconfig`), first try to start it with:

```
ifconfig wlan0 up
```

If it still doesn't show up in `ifconfig`, you may need to configure your system to load the appropriate kernel module on startup:

```
depmod
modprobe ath6kl_sdio
```

To get the module to load automatically on startup, you may also have to add `ath6kl_sdio` to your `/etc/modules` config file as well.

Another issue with the out-of-the-box networking setup provided by Linaro is that the board will take a long time to boot when the ethernet port is disconnected. This is because eth0 DHCP is configured in `/etc/network/interfaces` instead of being managed by NetworkManager. To prevent this issue, you just have to comment these two lines in `/etc/network/interfaces`:

```
#auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
```

If you want DHCP, you can just leave the file as-is (with the two lines commented) and `NetworkManager` will properly handle DHCP for you. If you want a static IP address, you can set it up by adding this to the file:

```
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.5
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.254
```

### Install Java and SensorHub

The only additional thing you need before you can install and run sensorhub on the board is a version of java 7. This can be either openjdk or Oracle JVM. You can install the former by doing:

```
apt-get update
apt-get install openjdk-7-jdk
```

If you download Java from Oracle, remember you need the ARM version. You can download it from [here](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk7-arm-downloads-2187468.html) at the time of writing.

You can then download a SensorHub release and run it immediately on the board using the launch script. See the [Installation Guide](http://www.sensiasoftware.com/sensorhub/documentation/) for more info.
